All right.
So we've got our, site's still running.
We can move here.
We can go to our about page.
This isn't particularly useful right now
because we have to know the names of these
pages to get between them.
So why don't we set up some links.
And now we could do,
there's nothing wrong with just
doing a planet link,
I could do something like this.
And I'd click it and I would go home,
but it does a full page refresh.
We don't want that we want that
Gatsby kind of app like experience.
So what I'm going to do to make that
work is I'm going to use Gatsby's link
component, so we can just import
that directly from Gatsby.
And then down here instead
of using an a tag,
I'm gonna use the link component and
we use two instead of href.
In the link component so
we're going to link to home and
let's maybe use different
call this back to home.
All right, so
now we have this back to home.
Now watch this tab index and watch
the fact that the page doesn't refresh.
It did everything so
fast that we didn't even see it.
Cool, here's the other part that it does
is it's got this Gatsby announcer and
so you see how it says
that we navigate it.
So let's go back.
So, we're at about this site.
So, then when we click,
here we go navigated to Hello masters or
Hello friend masters.
And that sort of like what Gatsby is
doing to make things more accessible.
It looks like it's happening so
fast that we can't see some of it, but
that's the gist of what's going on.
And then we can do the same
thing on our homepage.
So let's just copy paste this link.
Right, and then we can drop this in here.
We'll do a link to, and we're gonna go,
to about ,and say, about this site.
Okay, so
now that we've created these two links,
we can bounce back and forth, and
you can see that what's happening is it's
changing without having
to fully reload the page.
So this gives us that app like
experience that we're after,
we are able to navigate between pages.
Based on routes we can navigate directly
to these, if I refresh the page,
I'm still on about.
So this isn't like a fully single page
app style where we can go to any page,
but if we refresh it resets
us back to the entry point.
This is, we enter in the path that we
wanna be at, and then it mounts as an app.
We get that single page
app like experience.
It's very app like no page refreshes and
all those good things.
So that is linking and fortunately,
the the linking and
Gatsby is Is just really simple.
It makes me happy when an API works
like this because it feels easy.
I like it when things feel easy.
I shouldn't have to think very hard
about getting this stuff to work.
What I should also show though,
before we move on,
is something really cool about
Gatsby is if we refresh this,
let me make this bigger so
we can see what's going on.
Let me clear this and
let's refresh that page again.
Okay, so we have our page data, right?
Now watch when I hover over home,
to see how it just loaded
that index.js it just loaded
the component that we need,
so that when we click, it's already there.
So this is another thing that Gatsby
is doing in the background when you
hover over a link.
It'll start prefetching data so
that you don't have to wait as
long after you click that link.
And a lot of times, I'm going to
go here and I'm going to click,
that's maybe 500 milliseconds.
500 milliseconds can
make a big difference,
if something happens in under a second or
so, it feels instant.
It's a very nice experience.
And if the difference in me
clicking is one second or one and
a half seconds in terms
of how long I wait,
that can make the difference between my
app feeling, a little slow, or native.
And that's, the little things that we all
want to do when we build custom apps.
But we don't have time for, and so
you just end not doing it right?
Gatsby builds that in.
So now instead of wanting to do it and
not having time,
you don't even have to think about it,
it's just automatically there.